Let's not lose sight of the basic high-level goals and objectives,
so let's summarize what the technical BA needs to accomplish their job.
Be an excellent business analyst transforming business needs into requirements,
that's number one to me.
You will determine why you need the new system and what it will do.
Next, the technical BA is responsible for communicating requirements to IT.
Heads up, this can be very challenging,
so brush up on your communication skills as well.
Leveraging and using the necessary technical tools to
better convey the requirements.
Now we'll cover several of them in the module Tools of the Trade.
Lastly,
to have a good knowledge of the technology solutions to enable better
communication without determining how the system will be developed.
That's important.
That typically will be the domain and responsibility of the IT department,
the application architect or other highly technical positions.
Now, you will have to figure out what depth of technology you need to know,
either based on your passion to learn or the nature or
expectation of your organization,
or the depth of technical knowledge in your IT department.
Let's summarize this module.
We defined the business analyst as a liaison among business
stakeholders in order to understand the structure,
policies,
and operations of an organization and to recommend solutions that
enable the organization to achieve its business goals.
We learned that there are many designations or labels of the title analyst,
such as business analyst, business architect,
business process analyst, business systems analyst,
and technical business analyst.
We also revealed other roles in a company may be doing analysis work as well,
such as the product owner, developers, project managers or leaders,
product managers or subject matter expert,
so analysts do not have a corner on the market of analysis.
Then we moved on to provide more clarity as to just what a technical
business analyst is and why they do what they do.
Now, a technical business analyst is a business analyst who,
in addition to typical business analysis skills,
employs more complex analysis tools and possesses greater business
knowledge and technical understanding of systems and can
communicate with a richer and deeper level to both the business
and the technical IT communities.
Also,
it is important that the technical business analyst can have a key
role working with and communicating with the IT teams and should
be experts in user interface design, prototyping,
data modeling, data analytics, interface analysis,
quality assurance, and off-the-shelf solutions.
In the next module, Bridging the Gap Between Business and IT,
we will dive into just how the technical business
analyst can best bridge the gap. See you there!